---
template: blog-post
title: The Importance of Web Core Vitals in Lighthouse
slug: /.lighthouse-article
date: 2022-02-26 09:40
description: Lighthouse web core vitals
featuredImage: /assets/lighhouse-ex-1.png
---
  When a user uses your website, the first thing that they encounter is the speed of your website. For a user usually they don’t notice if it is really fast. They just think that’s how a normal website should work. However, what a user does pay attention to is the slowness. Once it loads slowly, they notice that the website is not acting how it is supposed to be. This is when it comes into problems with speed of it and the importance of speediness for the user. Although for you the website loads pretty fast, that doesn’t mean that the people loading your website from other parts of the world will have the same experience. This is where the Google Lighthouse tools come into play for your website. Google lighthouse generates a report on your website and measures the speed and contributes to having a high performance for your website. It lets you know if your website loading is successful or not. There are three things that Google Lighthouse measures for performance. These three things are important to your website in the way that it takes these three things and are the core of your website performance. The list of web core vitals are: LCP, FID, and CLS. These three web core vitals are important to your website because they rely on a good user experience, help measure your websites, and give them a score so you have an overall idea on how your website is doing.


What is LCP? LCP stands for Largest Contentful Paint. In simple terms what this means is shown in the article “How to use Google Lighthouse to Improve Site Speed” by Michelle Ofiwe. In this article it gives helpful tips to use lighthouse. Michelle mentions a simple meaning to LCP, “How long it takes for the largest content to load above the fold.” This means that the largest content you have in your website is being measured in lighthouse. If you get a good score this helps with how fast your page loads for the user. This is important because it is the largest content you have so it weighs a lot in loading on your website. Therefore, it depends on how fast it loads that your user will have a satisfactory experience. For a good score on LCP it should be less or equal to 2.5 seconds. 


Another thing that Lighthouse measures is when a user interacts with one of the things on your page. This is called FID; which stands for First Input Delay. So as soon as the first click happens from the user lighthouse measures how long it takes you web page to respond. This is very useful to know how it measures in your webpage because it is one of the key aspects in making user interface satisfactory for you user. A detailed article about FIP “First Input Delay (FID)” by Philip Walton mentions a good score. “To provide a good user experience, sites should strive to have First Input Delay of 100 milliseconds or less.” This shows that for you user to have a good experience on your website it is vital that your score is 100 milliseconds or less. This is important because how Philip Walton mentions “But as users, we’ve all frequently experienced the opposite-we’ve loaded a web page on our phone, tried to interact with it, and then been frustrated when nothing happened.” This shows that as users we should know how frustrating it can be when we click something, and it delays for it too work. With that in mind, we should strive to have a successful website by seeing how long our website takes to respond to a first click. Thanks to lighthouse, it can guide us to see how slow or fast it is and tells us if our webpage is doing good in that regards. 


CLS also stands for Cumulative Layout Shift. In the helpful article by Philip Walton and Milica Mihajlija “Cumulative Layout Shift (CLS)” they mention the meaning of CLS.  “CLS is a measure of the largest burst of layout shift scores for every unexpected layout shift that occurs during the entire lifespan of a page.”  This means that when the user is using your webpage one of the elements can cause the website to shift unexpectedly and this could cause the user to be frustrated because they can lose there place to where they were or other things. As you can see this can cause problems for the user’s experience. Google Lighthouse measures this so that you can know the score of the CLS and see if it will cause problems for the user. A good score for this is a CLS score of 0.1 or less. Having a good score is important to the core values of your web because it ensures that the user of the webpage won’t encounter problems of any kind when encountering these layout shifts. As a user, I get annoyed when suddenly I lose my place, or an ad moves up suddenly when I try to click something, and I accidentally end up clicking on it. Using Lighthouse tools for these will guide you into making your webpage having a good user experience. 


The importance of these web core vitals is important in lighthouse to see that your website is working properly in those areas. With CLS, FID, and LCP you can see your score on lighthouse and see how each area of these is doing. This will help the overall experience of your page.